## Macrophage landscape in tumour progression

### Hypothesis: 
In early-stage tumours there is still an on-going battle against the tumour, so we expect to find both pro-tumour and anti-tumour macrophages. In late-stage tumours, this battle is lost and we expect to find mostly pro-tumour macrophages. 

## Analysis 
In this figure we have tSNEs separated by condition and coloured with the results of a clustering analysis at low-resolution. We see that there are groups of macrophages that are either enriched in the early-stage or in the late-stage of tumour development. We performed a differential gene expression analysis of each cluster against the others. We selected top marker genes for each cluster that are represented in the dotplot. We highlight the most interesting groups. The pink cluster is enriched in the early tumours and upregulates markers associated with antigen-presentation. It also upregulates CXCL16, a well-described chemokine known to attract T cells (discussed in further details on the next slot). Therefore, we identify this group of macrophages as pro-inflammatory, likely playing a role in attracting and activating T cells in the tumour microenvironment. Another interesting group is the green cluster, enriched in late-stage tumours. This cluster upregulates markers associated with angiogenesis and therefore we identify it as an angiogenic group of macrophages that aids in tumour progression. Although smaller than these previous clusters, the yellow and blue clusters are more interesting as they show upregulation of markers that are still poorly described in the literature in the macrophage context. Namely, the yellow cluster, which only exists in the late-stage tumours, shows upregulation of S100A8/S100A9, two genes that code for calcium-binding proteins and are usually described as being expressed by neutrophils. In our analysis we show that they can also be expressed by differentiated macrophages and are potentially associated with an immunosuppressive function given that some studies have described that secretion of S100A8/A9 leads to accumulation of myeloid-derived suppressor cells and consequent inhibition of T and NK cell activation. 
Finally, the blue clusters of macrophages is enriched in the early-stage and upregulate ACE. Studies using ACE 10/10 mice have shown that macrophages that upregulate this gene have strong anti-tumour properties although the mechanism through which they kill tumour cells is still poorly described. 
